This is a pre-release version of GNU Backgammon (gnubg), a backgammon
player and analysis tool.  Please send comments and suggestions to
<gnubg@sourceforge.net>.

Look for news and upcoming releases of GNU Backgammon at:
    http://gnubg.sourceforge.net/

It is still very unfinished, but I hope some people may find it useful.
These features are currently implemented:

 - A 2-sided bearoff database which gives perfect cubeless evaluations
   for all positions where both players have 6 chequers or less remaining
 - A 1-sided bearoff database which gives accurate cubeless evaluations
   for all other bearoff positions
 - Neural net functions for giving cubeless evaluations of all other
   contact and race positions
 - Functions to generate legal moves and evaluate positions at varying
   search depths
 - A command line interface (with full command editing features if GNU
   readline is available) that lets you play games against gnubg with
   a rough ASCII representation of a board
 - Automated rollouts of positions, with lookahead and race variance
   reduction where appropriate
 - TD training of neural net weights
 - Optional X11 interface replacing the ASCII board (still very rudimentary;
   if you have problems with it, you can build the ASCII version instead
   by using "./configure --without-x")
 - Supervised training of neural net weights

I intend to add the following before release:

 - Optional scripting ability (if GNU Guile is available)
 - Most importantly, to improve the accuracy of the evaluation functions!


The distribution is still messier than it should be, I'm afraid; I intend
to fix this in future.  One of the difficulties is in constructing the
bearoff database and neural net weights -- these files are several
megabytes large and can take hours to generate.  For the meantime, I
have made them available on the WWW:

    http://gnubg.sourceforge.net/development/

The weights file should be named `gnubg.weights' and the bearoff database
`gnubg.bd'; both files are stored in gzip (.gz) format on the development
server.

The Makefile will automatically generate the bearoff database during
compilation.  However, this is a slow process, so if you have a fast
net connection, you may prefer to take a copy from the above site
instead.  If you want to do this, copy it BEFORE you start compilation,
to avoid creating one yourself.

Thanks for trying GNU Backgammon!

Gary.
